go damn it
[Music]
all set hi fellas hi ladies welcome to a
piece of online content
today i wanted to talk about something
that's probably a little bit present in
your lives
and very very present in lives like mine
and your other fellow
and your other fellow creators online
sponsorships
as many of you are probably aware the
environment of youtube and advertising
shifted kind of last
year as the adpocalypse happened and
many people including myself could start
to not really rely on
youtube ads themselves to pay the bills
and had to shift unfortunately towards
implementing more sponsorships from
companies brands and all the likes on
their youtube videos
it's never fun to have to sell anything
to anybody in fact it makes me feel like
when i was back in middle school and i
had to sell pizza kits
for my cross country team so we could
all get sweat pants first of all
why are you buying sweatpants it's a
cross country team
second of all who the hell wants a pizza
kit
it was a little caesar's pizza kit you
got the crust and the sauce and the
cheese and [__] and you could make like
three pizzas for like
25 what if you're shelling out that much
money
for pizza you have to make yourself and
it's from little caesars what are you
what are you doing guy anyway everybody
knows it's not fun to have to push
things on other people
now in my experience i've had a pretty
generally uh
time working with brands there have been
many brands that have been pretty
unreasonable and
out of touch and and very greedy and
selfish with their demands and what they
want for the promotion
but there have been a couple brands that
have been very very cool if you want to
know honest to god
the best brands that i've worked with
personally they've been incense zen
munch pack seat geek and dollar shave
club but of all the brands that do
business on youtube
by far the worst
most cancerous negative
selfish unrealistic just downright
stupid companies on youtube are
mobile games you guys got mobile phones
do you like your cellular mobile devices
you want to play some fun
activities on there well let me tell you
a little bit about
mobile game companies and their presence
in the youtube world
now just looking at you guys i can tell
that generally speaking
you seem to be a classy bunch of people
i bet that generally speaking you watch
comedy channels maybe a little bit of
commentary maybe a bit of lifestyle
stuff that's done well and
isn't predatory so most likely you
haven't been exposed to some of these
very cancerous
mobile game ads from some of your
favorite creators but if you have ever
seen a mobile game ad
on any youtube video i guarantee you
that it is gone almost exactly the same
way
every time so what i have done just for
you today is collect a series of emails
that i've received from mobile game
companies over the years
i've reached out to other youtubers who
have received emails from mobile game
companies over the years and i have
compiled
a general list of some of the things
that mobile game sponsors want you to do
for them
on youtube what i find eerie is the fact
that even though these emails come from
a multitude of different companies
brands games and just people in general
almost every single promotion for a
mobile game
reads about the same so you're a
youtuber let's crack into what a mobile
game company
wants you to do for their brand now i'm
not going to be using the names of
companies
apps or other youtubers that i've
gathered information from or had
firsthand experience with
pretty clearly because while i don't
condone this i don't exactly have the
money or the clout
to [__] down the throats of every big
company in the world
let's start with some promotion that i
myself have admittedly done for a mobile
game app
over a year ago so i made one of my
longer unconventional oven cooking
videos and i threw in the sponsorship
for a
mobile game about poker and gambling you
know one of those things that your
cigarette ridden aunt plays so that she
can win free tickets to casinos where
she thinks she's getting more money than
she's spending because they give her a
free night and she'll drop two thousand
dollars and then encourage you to come
take
bonus points and play with her and get
free [__] you know those apps
just looking back in my gmail history
here i noticed that this interaction
was a 59 message email thread that is
59 individual emails that were sent back
and forth between me
and the company to try to decide on what
would work for us
creatively and business-wise now the
only reason i was entertaining any sort
of sponsorship particularly from a
mobile game company at that time was
clearly because
i needed some extra cash as many
youtubers find themselves in especially
growing and coming up as they
start making their name on the platform
after 59
emails here is what the company still
insisted
on getting from me for promotion let me
know if any of these talking points
sound familiar or if you've heard one of
your favorite creators
talk like this in the past to begin my
video this company wanted me to start
right out of the gates with a two to
three
minute talking point about their ad
what what is of the roughly 500 videos
that i've made
probably 10 of my catalog is
even over two minutes in all the talks
that i have ever had with mobile game
sponsorships
they will not [__] budge on the first
one to two minutes
no exceptions so in these first two
to three minutes here's what i am
supposed to be cramming down your slimy
little consumer throat
i am supposed to tell you right out of
the gates that i found this quote
unquote fun exciting new app that i just
can't get enough of that sounds really
genuine you guys know me well
i talk like a 50s sitcom dad hey gang
why don't you hop
in here i found this nifty new app that
i just
can't get enough of i am supposed to
tell you
three to five different features of the
app that i
specifically love so for example if i
were talking about a poker game i would
say something along the lines of
hey guys so i recently came across
this cool new app called gus's [__]
poker app
one of my favorite things about gus's
[__] poker app is the 2v2 texas hold
them no limit double draw limit down
poker tournaments guys we're just having
a casual conversation
the next item on the list after talking
about the specific app features that i
like
is that i am supposed to tell a quote
emotional
and engaging story about how poker
has influenced my life what
an emotional and engaging story
about how poker has influenced
my life hey guys so i just wanted to say
that
i was in a really rough place a couple
of years ago and i was
living on my parents couch and i was 43
years old and
i didn't have any job and i still wet
the bed or the couch i guess
but then my cousin raj came to town and
started
inviting me to some black market back
room
poker tournaments and i risked it all
and i had to do a lot of really bad
things for money but then
poker got my life back on track
so after you the brain dead mindless
consumer just got done
bawling your eyes out over my emotional
and engaging
poker story i'm supposed to show you at
least one full minute
of gameplay of the stupid app
and again this is basically every mobile
game sponsorship it's not just specific
to this dumb poker app
so after you sit down and you're
supposed to believe
me your reputable trusted
loved creator try to [__] bamboozle
you
like you're three years old and you
don't know what an
advertisement is i'm supposed to just
naturally and organically whip out
the app and show it to your [__]
dumb face and say oh remember that thing
that
you and me buddy we're buddies we're
just talking about
naturally well here's some gameplay
of it you guys want to see some gameplay
you guys like gameplay don't you you
millennial [__]
i know the main focus of this video is
to [__] directly on the companies
themselves for having
unrealistic expectations and my intent
is to not
condemn the creators who accept these
i've been in the position myself of
needing a little extra influx of cash
and doing what i had to to try to make
rent next month but some of the people
that end up going through with the ads
you can tell
immediately that it's just the most
horrible fake stupid way to implement a
brand into a piece of content almost
every single time they'll start off the
video
saying what they're going to be doing
today and then somebody else will grab
the camera and they'll come in like
if it's in a garage they'll come into
the garage and their friend will come
behind them and be like with the camera
they'll say
hey josh you ready to get going we're
gonna film that video today
and then i'll be josh oh hey travis i'm
sorry you must have caught me while i
was off guard
you see my life has basically been
non-existent the last two weeks
as i've been clinically addicted to this
new gus's [__]
poker app oh you're rolling right now
you say well seeing as the camera is up
and running
didn't know that's gonna happen anyway
let me just shift the phone here so you
can see that i'm playing a double dip
dipstick baby drop pop doug dimmadome
texas hold him two for two julian smith
app game right here
is the three minutes up yet okay well
thanks for stopping by the garage
that's just part of my life that's going
on right now catch you later [__]
this video is going off the rails so to
wrap up this midlife crisis of a video
sponsorships are just something that's
going to happen on youtube it's got to
happen for your favorite creators so
they can
create the content that you want it's
part of the community now
i and many of my other creator friends
are very appreciative of people being so
accepting
of the fact that most people can't
really rely
on the youtube ad earnings fully and
they'll sometimes have to supplement
income
with sponsorships especially the guys
that make 30 second content that
sometimes after hundreds
of thousands of views you make three
dollars that is not an exaggeration
if you want to see even two creators
that just kill it with their sponsorship
game
look at like drew goodin and eric
comment etiquette
are great examples of people that take
this sponsorship and make content out of
it and one final note in a video where i
complain about sponsorships is to
mention yet again
that the most dope and cool and
completely
apathetic hands-off company to ever do
sponsorships with
is incense zen.com
you want to go buy like 20 [__]
incense sticks where you burn them and
then they make your house smell really
good
go get 20 sticks for like two bucks
online
use coupon code gus for 15 off your
order i've been working with incent send
for well over a year
and they just they do not give a [__]
about what you do or what you say they
don't even make me approve the videos
before i post them they don't care what
i say i've literally said
in videos as a joke [__] incense
zen and their rep goes all right great
that's good i love it
they just don't they get it they're a
cool company and if you want to support
them which does in turn
support me financially and business-wise
then go to incensen.com and you can use
coupon code
gus at checkout you get 15 off your
order
so check out incense and if you want to
make that stank go down the sink
thanks for watching the video and for
supporting what i do go ahead follow me
on twitter for updates about the channel
and for new content and for some
recycled old content that i'm trying to
[__] myself out on
so don't forget to turn on that
notification bell be good to one another
and holy [__] icy would you [__]
send me an email bye boys
[Music]
[Applause]
you